- [Instructor] So now that we've talked about OAuth2
and OAuth2 with Spring,
it's time for us to actually use OAuth2 as a provider,
and we're going to do that using GitHub.
Now, the reason we're using GitHub is,
I'm speaking to developers here,
and most of us have a GitHub account.
If you don't have a GitHub account,
you can either create one for free or use another service.
The steps will be the exact same,
other than you will use their authentication provider
as opposed to GitHub.
But for what I'm going to explain, use GitHub
and it'll be much easier if you use your GitHub account.
So the first thing that I'm going to do
is I'm going to actually create a new project,
just because it's going to be significantly easier.
And I'm going to use the built in tool in IntelliJ.
Again, most IDEs have the same concept
of creating a new Spring Boot starter project,
or of course, you can always go to start.spring.io,
create one and download it.
Either way works fine.
So let's call this one admin-client.
We will set our group to be com.frankmoley.lil,
JDK 17, we're going to create a jar.
And we are going to bring in web.
And we are going to bring in OAuth2 client.
And we will bring in security.
Go ahead and hit finish.
All right, make sure that we are in the client.
I'm going to go ahead and get rid of some of these files
that we don't need.
If you don't have Maven installed,
you are going to want to keep these,
if you're using the default way of handling Maven.
I use the built in one on my operating system
so I can get rid of those.
So let's open up source, main, resources
and in static, I'm going to create a new HTML file
and I'm going to call it Index
and we will simply call this Hello World.
And we're going to put an H1 tag in here
and just say Hello LinkedIn Learning Students.
Excellent.
So now that we've got that done,
it's time for us to go create a GitHub app.
So I have GitHub loaded up here
and I am going to go into my profile and settings.
And on the bottom, on the left side,
I'm going to go to developer settings
and I'm going to go to OAuth apps
and I'm going to register a new application.
And we will call this one admin-client.
The URL that we will use is local host 8080.
Description doesn't matter
but we do need to put in a callback URL
and the callback URL we are going to use
is http://localhost.8080/login/oauth2/code/github.
Go ahead and register this application.
And you'll see we have a client ID
but we don't have the secret yet
so let's just hang on
and let's do a little bit of configuration
and we'll get back to this.
So in our IDE,
I want you to open up the application.properties file,
and we're going to put a couple properties in here.
So spring.security.oauth2.client.registration-
.github.client-id, and the value for that,
we will get back on our GitHub page,
grab that client ID and drop it in there.
Now we're going to do another property
and it all looks the same,
except for now it's going be a client secret.
And now back to GitHub.
We'll go ahead and generate a new client secret.
You're going to have to put in your password.
And you're going to want to copy that client secret.
Now I'm going to delete these.
Don't commit this to source control
because you will run into issues.
I will delete this app once it's done
so that it's no longer valid
but don't ever commit these things to source control.
They are a client ID and secret.
So back in our application,
we'll go ahead and paste that value.
All right, so now all we need to do is run our application.
So I am going to select my client application and run it.
And once it's up and running,
I'll navigate here to a web browser
and I'm going to open up local host 8080
and you'll see, it's going to ask me to authorize admin client
and it's going to do that with my GitHub account.
So I'll go ahead and authorize it
and it logs me back into my application.
That's really all there is to getting anything working
with an OAuth2 client
because everything is built into Spring Boot.
So we now have an application
that's protected by an OAuth provider, in this case, GitHub,
and we can see our application only once we've logged in.
Now, obviously you can take this as far as you want.
You can put logout pages,
you can do all kinds of protections,
but for now, this is the simple form
and apply everything else that we've learned
and you can build a full featured application
using one or more OAuth providers.